# Allen_Gunn_project-
Project 2 

Project Plan: We are extracting Obesity Overweight and Weight Control Data from the 2017 Youth Behavioral Surveillance System data from Kaggle and comparing it to poverty data for US School Districts from the 2017 census API.
Steps for Extracting , Transforming , and Loading data for Census API data: 
Utilized the following dependencies: Pandas, requests, us, JSON and pprint. 
Data: collected data utilizing the Census API for the Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates (SAIPE) [School Districts: 1995, 1997, 1999-2016] data. https://www.census.gov/data/developers/data-sets/Poverty-Statistics.html This data set is part of a program that provides annual estimates of income and poverty statistics for all school districts, counties, and states with the ability to focus on the number of children ages 5 to 17, and the number of related children ages 5 to 17 in families in poverty estimates for school districts. The API url used to extract data was built using the Census variable dictionary. https://api.census.gov/data/timeseries/poverty/saipe/variables.html The API is free to use and only required a simple email sign-up. 
Once the url was created it was queried with a Census API key. Once we requested the data from the API, JSON was used to translate the data. The data was inputted into Pandas in an almost CSV-like format with the headers of the dataset as the first list within the dataset. This was observable by calling the first row using pov_json[0] (the name of our JSONified data) . This allowed us to input the dataset input the data into a data frame using the pd.DataFrame function. Once in a data frame, we dropped the first row so that the headers would not be duplicated and reset the index to reflect that. 
The next step was to clean the data further and make it useable for the client. The state column did not have string variables but only the State FIPS code in the ‘state’ column. Using the US python dictionary the FIPS code was translated to create both the ‘State’ and ‘State Abbreviation’ columns. The ‘state’ column was renamed to be ‘State Fips’. The 'SAEPOV5_17RV_PT' column was renamed to be 'Ages 5-17 in Families in Poverty, Count Est'. The 'SD_NAME' column was renamed to be 'School Dist Name'. Lastly, the 'school district (secondary)' column was renamed to be ‘School Dist Code'. The columns were then reorganized to put location data together and school district data together.  The next step was to clean duplicates and drop null values if there were any. This left the data frame with 402 entries. For the purpose of this project we sampled 100 rows, reset the index, then saved the data into a CSV titled “School_Poverty_data2017.csv”. 
